Update and reorganize the README (#1308)
informalsystems/quint: README.md

<div align="center">

<!-- Title -->
<img src="./logos/quint-logo.png" alt="Quint Lang Logo" width="120"/>
<h1>Quint Lang</h1>

<!-- Menu -->
<p>
    <a href="#installation">Installation</a> •
    <a href="./doc#readme">Documentation</a> •
    <a href="#community">Community</a>
</p>

<!-- Badges -->
<p>
    <a href="https://github.com/informalsystems/quint/actions">
        <img
            src="https://github.com/informalsystems/quint/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg"
            alt="build badge">
    </a>
    <a href="https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=informal.quint-vscode">
        <img
            src="https://img.shields.io/visual-studio-marketplace/v/informal.quint-vscode?color=10b0f2&label=VSCode"
            alt="Visual Studio Marketplace Version">
    </a>
    <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@informalsystems/quint">
        <img
            src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@informalsystems/quint"
            alt="npm (scoped)">
    </a>
</p>
</div>

## Overview

> Quint is a modern specification language that is a particularly good fit for

Author: We thought the use in the header discharged that obligation. Do you know if it needs be repeated in the paragraph?

distributed systems, such as blockchain protocols, distributed databases, and
p2p protocols. Quint combines the robust theoretical basis of the [Temporal
Logic of Actions (TLA)][TLA] with state-of-the-art static analysis and
development tooling.

### Example code in Quint :mrs_claus: :gift: :santa:

``` bluespec
module secret_santa {
  import basicSpells.* from "../../spells/basicSpells"
  import commonSpells.* from "../../spells/commonSpells"

  const participants: Set[str]

  /// get(recipient_for_santa, S) is the recipient for secret santa S

>   var recipient_for_santa: str -> str

Author: Counterpoint: itIsHarderToReadWordsWhenTheyAreAllMashedTogether :stuck_out_tongue_closed_eyes: 

I prefer snakes, but I'll defer to @bugarela on this to, who first opted for this naming.

>   var recipient_for_santa: str -> str

Reviewer: I think this problem is undecidable :laughing: there is no way to please everyone here, and considering we will have a completely mixed audience, I chose snake case because that is easier to read in general. Of course, people who prefer camel case won't agree, but there's no way to please everyone (on the example - quint itself won't force a style ofc).

  /// the bowl of participants, containig a paper piece for each participant name
  var bowl: Set[str]

  val santas = recipient_for_santa.keys()

>   val recipients = recipient_for_santa.mapValuesSet()

Author: I don't feel strongly here but I don't agree that inlining definitions when we have a clear operator for it is preferable, esp. not when the point is show a very simple spec. 

That said, the name of the operator is not very nice, and if it were `values` I would feel stronger about it :)

I'll defer to @bugarela here, who introduced use of `mapValuesSet`.

>   val recipients = recipient_for_santa.mapValuesSet()

Reviewer: I agree with @shonfeder on this, in the sense that I'd keep this as is if the name of the operator was better (like `values()`). However, in this case, I'd go with Igor's suggestion. The reason why I introduced `mapValuesSet` was because I was repeating the `map` thing in two different places, but with the use of auxiliary definitions, I think the `map` expression is clearer than this odd-named helper.

>   val recipients = recipient_for_santa.mapValuesSet()

Author: Sounds good!

  /// The initial state
  action init = all {
    recipient_for_santa' = Map(), // No santas or recipients
    bowl' = participants,         // Every participant's name in the bowl
  }

  action draw_recipient(santa: str): bool = {

>     nondet recipient = bowl.oneOf()

Author: I think it reads better as prefix, but don't care about the extra character :)

    all {

>       recipient_for_santa' = put(recipient_for_santa, santa, recipient),

Author: No languages I now of use `put` for maps, so I don't think that matters to much. I thought this read more naturally, but I don't feel strongly here and happy to go either way.

>       recipient_for_santa' = put(recipient_for_santa, santa, recipient),

Reviewer 2: Just for the reference, Java and thus Scala has `Map.put`. There is always a language that has it :))

>       recipient_for_santa' = put(recipient_for_santa, santa, recipient),

Author: Thanks for info! In theory, I should know that about Scala :D

      bowl' = bowl.setRemove(recipient),
    }
  }

  action step = all {
    bowl.size() > 0,
    nondet next_santa = participants.filter(p => not(p.in(santas))).oneOf()
    draw_recipient(next_santa)
  }

>   val everyone_gets_a_santa = (bowl.size() == 0).implies(participants == recipients)

Author: I think the size comparison is clearer, since it doesn't rely on people knowing our syntax for constructing an empty set.

  val no_person_is_self_santa = santas.forall(person =>

>     get(recipient_for_santa, person) != person

Author: This order is motivated by readability, "get recipient for santa, <person>", but this is also something I don't feel super strongly about. WDYT, @bugarela? You had the suffix application initially.

  )

  val invariant = everyone_gets_a_santa and no_person_is_self_santa
}

module quint_team_secret_santa {
  import secret_santa(participants = Set("Gabriela", "Igor", "Jure", "Shon", "Thomas")).*
}
```

<details>
<summary>Checking if everyone gets a santa</summary>

Quint (with the help of [Apalache][apalache]) can check to ensure that after the bowl is
empty, every participant has a santa! No kids crying when the gifts are exchanged :gift:.

``` bluespec
quint verify secret_santa.qnt --invariant=everyone_gets_a_santa --main=quint_team_secret_santa --apalache-config=config.json
[ok] No violation found (2119ms).
You may increase --max-steps.
```

</details>

<details>
<summary>Checking if no one gets themself</summary>

This specification has no safeguards against people being their own santa! Quint
(with the help of [Apalache][apalache]) can easily find a minimal example where
this happens. Sorry kids, I hope you don't mind buying your own present :cry:!

``` bluespec

> quint verify secret_santa.qnt --invariant=no_person_is_self_santa --main=quint_team_secret_santa

Author: Adding a separate file would make the example less clear.

An example execution:

[State 0]
{
  quint_team_secret_santa::secret_santa::bowl: Set("Gabriela", "Igor", "Jure", "Shon", "Thomas"),
  quint_team_secret_santa::secret_santa::recipient_for_santa: Map()
}

[State 1]
{
  quint_team_secret_santa::secret_santa::bowl: Set("Igor", "Jure", "Shon", "Thomas"),
  quint_team_secret_santa::secret_santa::recipient_for_santa: Map("Gabriela" -> "Gabriela")
}

[violation] Found an issue (2047ms).
error: found a counterexample
```

</details>

[Apalache]: https://github.com/informalsystems/apalache
[TLA]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temporal_logic_of_actions

### Features
<dl>
  <dt>A simple and familiar <strong>syntax</strong></dt>
  <dd>to support engineers reading and writing specifications</dd>

>   <dt>An expressive <strong>type systems</strong></dt>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <dt>A simple yet expressive <strong>type system</strong></dt>
```

  <dd>to ensure the domain model is coherent</dd>

  <dt>A novel <strong>effect system</strong></dt>
  <dd>to ensure state updates are coherent</dd>

  <dt><strong>IDE support</strong> via LSP</dt>
  <dd>giving real time feedback when writing specifications</dd>

  <dt>A <strong>REPL</strong></dt>
  <dd>enabling interactive exploration of specifications</dd>

  <dt>A <strong>simulator</strong></dt>
  <dd>enabling tests, trace generation, and exploration of your system</dd>

>   <dt><strong>Symbolic model checking</strong></dt>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <dt><strong>Symbolic model checker</strong></dt>
```

  <dd>to verify your specifications via <a href="https://github.com/informalsystems/apalache">Apalache</a></dd>
</dl>

### Motivation

Quint is inspired by [TLA+][] (the language) but provides an alternative surface
syntax for specifying systems in TLA (the logic). The most important feature of
our syntax is that it is minimal and regular, making Quint an easy target for

> advanced developer tooling and static analysis (see our [design principles][]

Reviewer 3: Looks like the link target here is missing for `[design principles]`.

Author: Fixed. Thanks!

and [previews](./doc/previews.md) of the tooling).

The syntax also aims to be familiar to engineers:

- At the lexical level, it borrows many principles from C-like languages.
- At the syntax level, it follows many principles found in functional languages.
- At the semantic level, Quint extends the standard programming paradigm with
  non-determinism and temporal formulas, which allow concise specification of
  protocol environments such as networks, faults, and time.

Thanks to its foundation in TLA and its alignment with TLA+, Quint comes with
formal semantics built-in.

<details>

> <summary>A comparison between Quint and TLA<sup>+</sup> code</summary>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<summary>An example that highlights differences between Quint and TLA<sup>+</sup></summary>
```
